# Metasploitable 2 Penetration Testing Report

The writeup for this vulnerable virtual machine is a bit different than the ones I usually do. In this case, I have formatted my writeup into two documents, a detailed vulnerability report and a penetration test summary. The detailed vulnerability report is a nicely-formatted document explaining how I went through the formal penetration testing methodology of reconaissance -> scanning -> gaining access -> maintaining access -> reporting results. The document includes three examples of how I achieved root access on the Metasploitable 2 VM. This report would typically not be seen by a client and kept internal, but in case the client does request it, it is kept professional.

The penetration test summary document is a formatted document that would be presented to a client of a penetration test. It does not dive into too technical detail unlike the detailed vulnerability report, but it instead presents five vulnerabilities as a risk assessment, and then it presents a findings matrix that then determines the client's comparative security posture. This document allows a client to quickly determine how vulnerable their environment is related to others, and how much risk this presents to their environment.

This writeup was performed for my [INET 4165 - Security I: Principles](https://onestop2.umn.edu/pcas/viewCatalogCourse.do?courseId=801777 "University of Minnesota course catalog entry for INET 4165") class taught at the University of Minnesota - Twin Cities by [Nathan Tymeson](https://ccaps.umn.edu/nathan-tymeson "My professor for the course"). The virtual machine for Metasploitable 2 can be obtained [here](https://information.rapid7.com/metasploitable-download.html "Download link for Metasploitable 2")
